hey hey hey everyone Anthony Fantana
here internets busiest music nerd hope
you're doing well gotta admit this
article over here right next to my head
it's got me a little concerned a little
worried I will talk about that concern
right after I give a shout-out to our
sponsor of course in this video the good
people over at the ridge they make these
awesome nifty metal plated wallets that
fit nicely in your front pocket or place
your disgusting old bulky leather wallet
today using that link down below that
promo code melon and get 10% off alright
Spotify is newest pitch to labels and
musicians now you pay kind of a strong
title a bit stronger than what actually
reads deeper into the article it's not
quite so much
Spotify shaking down labels at this
point but you do have to consider that
streaming is the new mode of consumption
for music and now that streaming
services have acclimated listeners to
listening to and getting a hold of music
in this way and technologically speaking
there's not really another replacement
for this anywhere on the horizon I mean
this is it you're just kind of streaming
music through the internet for free at
your leisure and whatever song whatever
album you want to hear at whatever time
you want to hear it's there it doesn't
really get much more convenient than
that can't imagine some other medium or
mode of delivery that outpaces this or
isn't just another variation of this so
having said that that gives platforms
like Spotify platforms like Apple music
any music streaming platform really
quite a bit of leverage as hey labels
this is how your music gets to your fans
now this is the best and most effective
way and will always be when it comes to
making money getting attention getting
fans getting that engagement so what is
Spotify saying and proposing here in
this article basically they are devising
new methods to essentially entice
artists and labels into paying them
money for advertising of their music on
the platform now
what advertising means at this point is
not entirely clear as Spotify hasn't
fully rolled out all the potential ideas
that will come along with this change
they have mentioned one idea in this
article called marquee there's a great
article on Rolling Stone going into more
detail as to how this marquee
advertising service works stating that
labels can now purchase a pop-up ad
prompting users to listen to Taylor
Swift's lover for example on release day
according to confidential documents
obtained by Rolling Stone every time a
Spotify user clicks on one of these
advertisements the label Forks over 55
cents the label hopes some curious
clickers will then hit play on the
advertised music so it's not like
clicking on it even starts the music you
have to click on the ad and then it
brings you to the music and helping
artists bolster their stream counts
given that Spotify payout per click per
stream of a song is so low like labels
are never going to make this money back
it says also over here in Spotify pitch
deck which was sent to a distribution
company the platform advises artists and
labels to spend at least five thousand
dollars on these campaigns if an artist
pays that amount at fifty five cents a
click the campaign should bring in more
than nine thousand potential listeners
over a seven day period which
in terms of like larger overall
streaming numbers nine thousand
listeners nine thousand potential
listeners not even guaranteed this is
pretty measly if you're a label that has
let's say half a million dollars to blow
on the promotion of an artist or a
record there are most likely some way
more cost-effective ways that you could
do that this is just kind of the start
of this whole thing I mean this article
pretty much says as much this is really
only the first step to a larger series
of steps that Spotify is going to be
devising where they'll be finding ways
to entice artists and labels into paying
the money for a better placement that
our advertisement on the platform and
what I'm concerned with is that this
could potentially lead to a scenario
where we're essentially in the digital
age the streaming age
of Paola which if you guys know anything
about Paola or the history of that it's
it's that we have technically that they
don't always work but government
regulations preventing artisan labels
from paying radio stations to play their
songs so many times but radio is no
longer the the key market when it comes
to breaking and exciting people over new
music now it's the Internet and since
the internet especially platforms like
Spotify are largely unregulated you're
going to have people proposing pretty
much the same idea because there's
nothing really stopping them from
engaging in this behavior and while I
don't envision a future where Spotify is
going to become a totally closed space
where you can't access whatever type of
music you want to access at whatever
time you want to I still worry about
these business practices creating an
even more unlevel playing field where
independent artists struggle even harder
to be heard or being known or get any
sort of attention imagine a scenario
where rolling the clock back a little
bit you guys might remember that time
when Drake came out with his record
scorpion and how that record and songs
on it were plastered all over every
corner of Spotify the playlists the
front page everything now of course
Spotify was incentivized to do that
because it's a new record from a very
popular artists the more they shove that
in front of people's faces the more
likely people are gonna say Oh Drake you
know I've heard Drake or I like Drake I
want to stream this right away but
imagine a mediocre or an unknown or an
artist that labels are essentially
trying to break could pay for that type
of treatment now I suppose an indie
artist could take advantage of the same
system as well but most likely they're
going to be priced out of whatever the
major labels are able to pay for this
kind of exposure and as long as there's
no legal barriers preventing Spotify
from doing so business moves like this
are going to trend toward that direction
and again ultimately become sort of a
concern for me so those are my thoughts
on this situation check out the article
which we will link you to down below and
let me know your thoughts in the
comments
as well is this just on its face and
even below that just an honest attempt
to make the company a bit more
profitable something that is ultimately
no harm no foul or is it you know
something a bit more into faras
something a bit more like Paola in a
sense in a spirit
I suppose do you think this sort of
thing is is likely to ruin the platform
even for you as a potentially a Spotify
user as I'm sure many of you who watch
these videos are so thank you very much
over here next to my head is another
video that you can check out hit that up
or the link to subscribe to the channel
Anthony Fantana
Spotify forever